# Classifying-Indian-Classical-Music-Carnatic-and-Western-Classical-Music
Indian classical music is the music of the Indian subcontinent and is one of the oldest kinds of music. Although  Indian  music  has  progressed  significantly, the  fundamental  components  appear  to  remain  the same as they were two thousand years ago. The raga is at the center of Indian classical music, and it is the language of the spirit. Novel Indian music, on the other hand,  has  been  heavily  impacted  by  Western  music notation,  which  is  based  on  equal  mean  tones, temperament  scales,  and  the  universal  priority of harmony. Indian and Western music differs not just in terms  of  culture,  but  also  in  terms  of  fundamental structures,   scales,   and   tuning.   New   musical innovations are burgeoning in the current decade with an incredible number of fusions of Western Classical music and Indian Classical music.While fusions are a way  of  celebrating  two  different  art  forms,  is  the originality of the  classical forms  fading away? This project  aimsatstudyingthe  classification  of  Indian Classical  Music  and  Western  Classical  music.A simple  feedforward  neural  network  was  created  to classify the audio data.The audio classification is not limited to the style of music. The model also classifies the  audios  according  to  the  instruments  and  the different  ensembles  at  play.A  testing  accuracy  of 75.00 percent and a training accuracy of 97.9percent was  achieved through  the  model.This  project  is  an attempt  to  encourage musical  fusions  and  to  help create  awareness  among  the  community  about  the ancient and widely practiced art of Carnatic Music.
